E-learning-on-Android
=====================

E-LEARNING ON ANDROID


Modern hand held devices such as smartphones and PDAs have become increasingly powerful in recent years. Dramatic breakthroughs in processing power along with the number of extra features included in these devices have opened the doors to a wide range of commercial possibilities. In particular most cellphones regularly include processors comparable to PC’s from only a few years ago and internet access. However, even with all these added abilities, there are few applications that allow much passing of environmental information and educational based services.
Android is a software stack for mobile devices that includes on operating system, middleware and key applications. Android is a software platform and operating system for mobile devices based on linux OS and developrd by Google and Open Handset Alliance.It allows developers to write managed code is a Java file language that utilizes Google-developed Java libraries, but does not support program in native code.As mobile devices become more like PC’s, they will come to replace objects we tend  to carry around such as notebooks, laptops, etc. In short we will be using them to  accomplish our daily tasks. One application that falls into this categories is “e-class”  developed for the Google Android phones.In order to improve learning flexibility and  efficiency, and break the constraints of time and space, a mobile learning system based  on Android is  proposed and realized .The mobile learning system to accommodate with the characteristic of portable devices, the system is designed for low power consumption and low learning cost.It is a perfect mean of collaborative e-learning. This android application enables the end user to register themselves, select the academic year, mention the subject, read the course and related university question papers. Course material is in the form of text and audio files. Course material and registration details are saved in database.The main advantages of the system are its low learning cost, secured connection, low power consumption, and ability for students to use cell phones as the communication devices. This system can improve the learners’ initiative participation, and break the constraints of time and space.
